Incoming livestream: Alright, thanks everyone for, the technical difficulties. I really appreciate the AV staff here. I'll just get started, and we'll just, we'll just work with what we got.
Incoming livestream: Hey everyone, thanks for coming to my talk. I'm Matt Maisel, I'm CTO and co-founder of Sendera. We're building trustworthy, agent partners. And I've spent the last 15 years at the intersection of machine learning, security, and software engineering.
Incoming livestream: Today, I'm going to be showing you how we can hook coding agents and adjudicate their actions using the CDER policy language.
Incoming livestream: And if you're in this, track today, there's a lot of good background material. This is a lightning talk, so we're gonna move really fast. We're actually gonna unroll the coding agent loop and build a policy harness all within the next 10 minutes. So, coding agent scaffolds, plan, generate, execute code, and run tools in loops.
Incoming livestream: We can map this action space into the trajectory event model that consists of, five, four, event types, actions, observations, control, and state.
Incoming livestream: Let's say an agent's maybe already working on some coding task, it's had a plan, it's going and generating code, triggering actions. So starting at the bottom left.
Incoming livestream: We have, the agent initiating actions, such as writing or modifying files, running shell commands, executing code, and these actions are all, mutating the environment that that agent's operating in.
Incoming livestream: The environment then emits an observation, back to the agent, providing feedback to the next model inference call.
Incoming livestream: Meanwhile, we also have control events, right, that handle user prompts, permission requests, sub-agent, agent orchestration, and then we have state events that handle, mechanics like memory compaction, pruning, environment snapshots, and so forth.
Incoming livestream: So, with this event model, we can actually take our now-canonical lethal trifecta threat model and map it to these trajectory events, and we can see that this just becomes, untrusted input, right, coming from things like skills, which might be fetched, you know, over web fetch, coming from a marketplace, and returned as an observation, right, as untrusted data, which might have injections.
Incoming livestream: We might already have sensitive data, like source code or internal docs, in the agent context or retrieved from memory. And then, through state changes, right, to make this complete lethal trifecta, we would have, like, shell commands or code execution, right, that would, would lead to exfill of that data.
Incoming livestream: But this is just one narrow threat model, data exfil, and with this trajectory model, we can do, we can do more complex, even multi, multi-step attacks, right, that are, going to have observations and actions over multiple turns of the loop that might involve, control events and state events.
Incoming livestream: And we can also map other threat and risk models, like OWASPOP10 for Agentic applications to this. And this is really just looking, helping us really map where we want to have control over the exact boundaries around these events and where they're produced. And this is where, reference monitors, come in.
Incoming livestream: So, we want a reference monitor sitting outside the agent and the model, right, to mediate every event. Ideally, this monitor is always invoked, it's tamper-proof and verifiable, so it acts as our hard security boundary between the agent control, observation, action, and state events, and where they're, you know, produced by the agent and by the system and the environment.
Incoming livestream: But a reference monitor by itself, it's only as good as the policy enforcement, points that it supports, right, where we can exert our control and where we can hook in. And that's, again, that's where, where agent coding hooks come into play.
Incoming livestream: So hooks allow us to intercept these trajectory events, process them, decide whether to allow, modify, or stop the agent's loop, so we're changing the agent's behavior. And this is invoked at different lifecycle stages of the agent loop.
Incoming livestream: And each coding agent implementation has its own details. Gemini CLI, for example, has before and after model hooks, which lets you stream individual tokens and do processing on them.
Incoming livestream: Cloud Code doesn't, actually have any model hooks at all, other than the final agent response, that's returned as a notification event type. And then Cursor has, pretty granular hook types for MCP, shell commands, as well as more generic tool calls. So with these hook lifecycle events, again, at each of these key event types.
Incoming livestream: We now have a policy, enforcement point. Now we need a way to express policies around this model.
Incoming livestream: So, we're choosing Cedar, in this implementation, to authorize these trajectory events and really the actions of the agent, and we're invoking that, processing and authorizing, whenever each hook event's triggered.
Incoming livestream: So CEDAR is a policy language that's expressive, fast, and analyzable, thanks to its formal properties and use of the lean symbolic compiler. Unlike other policy languages like Rego, CEDAR policies can be analyzed through these formal methods to check for contradictory, vacuous, or other shadow policy subsets.
Incoming livestream: And Cedar also has a nice, support for permission models, like attribute-based access control, which maps nicely, nicely to this domain. So you can see an example of this by looking at this, shell command action and context type in the middle, where we can see different schemas, for the entities, like agent and user and trajectory.
Incoming livestream: And this is where we can add attributes with signature tags, or data sensitivity classifications, and other attributes that might come from safety models or other guardrails that we're using, right, to compute values and compute attributes for these policies.
Incoming livestream: And policies don't just need to be security-oriented, they can also be, for agent behavior. So this is, it turns out, in fact, that Claude Code lets you write files while in plan mode. So we can have policies that look for this type of behavior.
Incoming livestream: And when permission mode is set to plan, in which this is coming that's specific to Claude Code actions, we can check to see if it's planned, we can forbid the right.
Incoming livestream: Unless that it's the actual plan file that it's writing to. So at Sendera, we covered this, actually, in detail in some research that we released yesterday.
Incoming livestream: Finally, we can also source policy content from our agent context itself, so, like, CloudMD or Cursor Rules files, and we can take, some of the, security and permissions intent, right, in these files, and formalize them as Cedar policies.
Incoming livestream: And in this example, we're forbidding the agent from performing shell executions based off of pattern matching on certain commands, destructive commands, or retrieving of certain environment files. So this one, we have our policies. The next step is setting up policy decision points to have our hook events trigger.
Incoming livestream: So let's build up now, part by part, a hook-based harness. So, we have our local adapters, which are commands that are run by the coding agents. They intercept these hook events, over standard in, they transform them into a trajectory event model, and then send them to a local harness service.
Incoming livestream: Inside the harness service, we have our policy, a CDER policy engine that extracts the entities, processes them against, you know, any guardrail, so it's kind of meant to be bring your own guardrail. But currently, we have YARA signatures, information flow control models, and a safety model. And then, from these results, we also update the entity and trajectory stores.
Incoming livestream: For Staple Bookkeeping about information about the entities that we're observing.
Incoming livestream: Writing Cedar policies can be tedious, but again, thanks to its formal properties, we can generate them with models and then verify and analyze them with built-in language tools. So, we can have a policy agent, that helps us author and validate when given policy features and context over MCP tools.
Incoming livestream: So finally now, we have this complete, harness, that's, hook-based. So let's, let's kind of go through a few examples of this.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: First, we'll look at, some, policy generation. So we have a skill that's shipped with this that just has the procedural knowledge about Cedar, and some instructions on how to call these different tools that are exposed.
Incoming livestream: So, first we have the agent actually fetch the available context and values, right, that are available for these entities, and maybe we're just gonna start writing a policy, and we'll tell it to go write some policies for shell injection.
Incoming livestream: We can see some examples that are returned around the entity types that are available from the schema. We can see different, context types.
Incoming livestream: And, if we keep going up here, too, we can also see different entities, actually, for the… these are label values for information flow control, so the sensitivity labels that we'll be looking at, as well as the categories from our policy model that we expose.
Incoming livestream: In this case, it's policies around secure code generation, and then, the various YARA signature categories that we have in our YARA rule set.
Incoming livestream: So let's look at, some more examples of this. So here's a, a blocking of a destructive, command, a destructive action, so maybe we have some Cedar policies that, you know, look for SQL mutations that don't have any constraints, so in this case, like a delete from users without a where clause.
Incoming livestream: So we can tell Claude to go run this. We can stop this and bring back, bring back the policy violation and context, for the agent then to use to either steer, or for a review by the user.
Incoming livestream: We can also do, again, more sophisticated multi-turn things here with the stateful bookkeeping. We have, we can do information flow control, where maybe in this, in this case, we're using Gemini CLI. Maybe Gemini, we have, like, a name, a date of birth, and an address, right, some PII.
Incoming livestream: we can track that type of highly confidential PII and taint the trajectory, so that way on subsequent turns of the agent, when maybe it's gonna go do a web fetch or run some network command.
Incoming livestream: and we know that that trajectory has sensitive information in the context, we can dynamically restrict access to those tool calls. So we'll see here very shortly this web fetch, to Google, here fail, and…
Incoming livestream: We'll, we'll turn back, return back a context again, in a similar way.
Incoming livestream: And again, these are just the policy examples here on the side, where the actions web fetch, and we see the trajectory resource label.
Incoming livestream: Finally, we'll look at this last demo with Cursor. So, this is demonstrating an instance of Lethal Trifecta, where, let's say we have a skill from a public marketplace that helps us generate code metrics to tell us how good of coders we are.
Incoming livestream: Unbeknownst to us, there's this metrics.python script in here that does some environment variable harvesting, and then, does some, does some requests to send that data out.
Incoming livestream: So we can actually, analyze that, command, event, the shell command event, and process the metrics.py file, and run it against all of our guardrails, our signatures.
Incoming livestream: And again, have that context available to us in our policy to block it.
Incoming livestream: So, wrapping us up, because again, this is a rapid tour.
Incoming livestream: First, I'm leaving you today with an open source Cedar policy engine that's integrated with these various coding agent hooks. This is a deterministic policy engine that's outside the model, so, you know, we don't have to simply rely on safeguards or instructions and prompts.
Incoming livestream: This complements, other defense-in-depth systems, like sandboxes or permission systems. Right? Permission systems can induce consent fatigue and have missing context. Sandbox systems might be overly restrictive, and we can get, the trajectory context here in our policy engine.
Incoming livestream: Some challenges, there is a, of course, sort of this Goldilocks policy zone, where we still have to optimize our policies, you know, depending on the context of the agent. So we don't want overly restrictive policies that cripple the utility, and then we also don't want brittle pattern matching on certain signature, certain, destructive commands, as an example, that could invite policy hacking.
Incoming livestream: So this is an area where we have some ongoing research with optimization and, guardrail latency benchmarking.
Incoming livestream: So we also have, policy scalability, right? The policy agent can help us, with the formal tools provided over MCP, with the ability to, do agent-assisted policy generation.
Incoming livestream: And then finally, just touching on, you know, more, the next, kind of future of, like, maybe multi-turn, stateful policies, you know, Cedar is inherently stateless, but because of the, entity and trajectory store, we can do bookkeeping about the entities that we observe and the trajectory over time.
Incoming livestream: And allow us to expose those attributes as dynamic attributes, but there's other logic systems, like temporal, linear logic, and others that, have more support for those types of operations over time, over trajectories.
Incoming livestream: So with that, thanks for your time. Here's the QR code to the, the GitHub repo with this work. Happy to take questions and, and talk afterward as well, too.
Incoming livestream: Anyone have questions?
Incoming livestream: Regarding the IFC model, are you tagging the datas, or the labels of the data, using AI?
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so this is a, a safety model. This is the GPT Safeguards, 20 billion model that has, like, a policy, like, basically policies that you provided as examples for your sensitivity labels. So that's how that classification's done. It could be from another DLP system, from another data classification system, for that, for that label, for that information.
Incoming livestream: Okay, and this is labeling on the entire data instead of, like, some segment of… So this is labeling on the events themselves, with whatever data is retrieved, or whatever event is present in the events themselves.
Incoming livestream: Great talk, thank you very much. So, quick questions, you… you write these policies, in some language, that's fine, but,
Incoming livestream: who decides what should the policy be for a given agent? The authors of the agents decide it, and in terms of the implementation, not the model as much as the implementation of the agents, do you put them in the pre-post hooks of the…
Incoming livestream: Of the tool calls, and the agent, LLM calls, and that sort of stuff.
Incoming livestream: If you can get some under-the-hood details. Yeah, so I kind of alluded to it a little bit, but this is where I think context from your CloudMD or your cursor rules files, like, we're already putting a lot of, sort of permission and security intent in there.
Incoming livestream: You know, so you might be on an engineering team where there's certain files or certain operations on infrastructure, and again, we're… again, we're making this trade-off of giving the agent more access, and giving more utility to do useful things for us, and then trying to dynamically determine when to revoke that access, right? It's the whole least privileges thing.
Incoming livestream: But yeah, like that, the idea there would be, it would be per team, that could be in your Markdown files, or it could come from your policy documents, you know, for your engineering best practices or operating practices in your environment.
Incoming livestream: I'm sorry, sorry, I couldn't hear, hear the question.
Incoming livestream: Identity, yeah, so identity is not, covered in here, but, any IDP could be added in here, like, this is, like, Cedar's sort of bread and butter, so that also could be used as well, too. We focus on the attribute-based, access control, in this, in this work.
Incoming livestream: Hey Matt, great talk. I'm curious, how does Cedar Policy Engine work with first-party agents? Whether it's based on Langchain.
Incoming livestream: Copilot Studio, stuff like that. Yeah, so, we also open source, a Cedar Policy Engine for, like, any, right now supported Python libraries, like Lang Chain, Strands, ADK, and others. But yeah, so it could also be embedded within those first-party agents as well, too.
Incoming livestream: Right.
Incoming livestream: Anybody else?
Incoming livestream: Matt had a lot of time, he finished up early.
Incoming livestream: Hey, Matt, thanks for the talk. You mentioned kind of towards the end how this is complementary with, like, a permission system. Could you just talk about that a little more? Yeah, so I think a good example would be, like, in Cloud Code permissions, right? You might, have Bash, and you might, again, similar to maybe what some of those Cedar policies where you're wildcarding on certain commands.
Incoming livestream: Great, you can still do that, but with Cedar, you can have more, context, you can have more, you can allow permissions, but only when the trajectory's not tainted with, some information flow control, label. So, that would be one example.
Incoming livestream: Thanks.
Incoming livestream: Anybody else? Oh, there we go, down front.
Incoming livestream: You mentioned, using this bookkeeping across multi-turn conversations. Have you experimented with multi-agent architectures, where you have, like, convergence and divergence of trajectories? So, I think this is where it gets, kind of… this is a single agent, like, focused on single agents right now, but the, the sort of control event types is that place where you can see when another agent's spawned, like a sub-agent's created, or maybe there's more, like, agent-to-agent communications.
Incoming livestream: So, as far as, like, thinking of this as a, another, another, like, agent-to-agent sort of, boundary, policies that may be, again, more, like, contextual integrity, like, sort of use cases of an agent that knows one secret, you can't let other agents in the environment know that secret. This could be another, another mechanism, but, that work is not to be done yet in this work.
Incoming livestream: Alright, thank you very much, Matt.